Pre-training language models have significantly improved the performance of neural machine translation (NMT) tasks. However, the autoregressive (AR) framework used in pre-training can be time-consuming, especially for long sequences. To address this issue, non-autoregressive (NAR) approaches have been explored, but leading NAR models still lag behind their AR counterparts. In this paper, we propose the Conditional Masked Language Model with Correction (CMLMC) to address the shortcomings of the Conditional Masked Language Model (CMLM) in NAR machine translation. 

CMLM leverages bidirectional context of masked tokens efficiently, but ignores the dependency among the masked tokens. To improve CMLM, we modify the decoder structure by exposing the positional encodings and incorporating causal attention layers to differentiate adjacent tokens. We also propose a novel correction loss that teaches the model how to correct translation mistakes made in early decoding iterations from the fully masked sentence. 

Our proposed CMLMC achieves new state-of-the-art undistilled NAR results and approaches AR performance on multiple NMT benchmarks. To investigate the possible reasons behind the performance gap between AR and NAR models, we review related works, including Universal Conditional Masked Language Pre-training, JANUS, BANG, ProphetNet, MPNet, and XLNet. These works propose various pre-training models and methods to improve the performance of NMT tasks. 

Universal Conditional Masked Language Pre-training demonstrates that pre-training a sequence-to-sequence model with a bidirectional decoder can produce notable performance gains for both AR and NAR NMT. JANUS proposes a joint AR and NAR training method using an auxiliary loss to enhance the model performance in both AR and NAR manner simultaneously and effectively alleviate the problem of distribution discrepancy. BANG bridges AR and NAR generation by designing a novel model structure for large-scale pre-training. ProphetNet introduces a novel self-supervised objective named future n-gram prediction and the proposed n-stream self-attention mechanism. MPNet leverages the dependency among predicted tokens through permuted language modeling and takes auxiliary position information as input to make the model see a full sentence and thus reducing the position discrepancy. XLNet enables learning bidirectional contexts by maximizing the expected likelihood over all permutations of the factorization order and overcomes the limitations of BERT thanks to its autoregressive formulation. 

In summary, our proposed CMLMC and related works demonstrate the effectiveness of various pre-training models and methods in improving the performance of NMT tasks.